[Music]
[Applause]
so I want to start by um offering you a
free no Tech life hack um and all it
requires of you is this that you change
your posture for two minutes but before
I give it away I want to ask you to
right now do a little audit of your body
and what you're doing with your body so
how many of you are sort of making
yourselves smaller maybe you're hunching
um crossing your legs maybe wrapping
your ankles sometimes we hold on to our
arms like this uh sometimes we uh spread
out I see you um so I want you to pay
attention to what you're doing right now
we're going to come back to that in a
few minutes and I'm hoping that if you
sort of learn to tweak this a little bit
it could significantly change the way
your life unfolds um so we're really
fascinated with body language and we're
particularly interested in other
people's body language you know we're
interested in like you know um a uh uh
an awkward interaction or a smile or a
contemptuous glance or maybe a a very
awkward wink um or maybe even something
like a handshake here they are arriving
at number 10 and uh look at this lucky
policeman gets to shake hands with the
president of the United States oh and
here comes the prime minister of it
no so um a handshake or the lack of a
handshake can have us talking for weeks
and weeks and weeks even the BBC and the
New York Times so so obviously when we
think about non-verbal Behavior or body
language but we call it nonverbals as
social scientists it's language so we
think about communication when we think
about communication we think about
interactions so what is your body
language communicating to me what's mine
communicating to you and there's a lot
of reason to to believe that this is
this is a valid way to look at this so
social scientists have spent a lot of
time looking at the effects of of our
body language or other people's body
language on judgments and we make
sweeping judgments and an in inferences
from body language and those judgments
can predict really meaningful life
outcomes like who we hire or promote um
who we ask out on a date for example uh
Nalan OT a researcher at TS University
shows that when people watch 30 minute
30 second soundless clips of real
physician patient interactions their
judgments of the physician's niceness
predict whether or not that physician
will be sued so it doesn't have to do so
much with whether or not that physician
was incompetent but do we like that
person and how they interacted um even
more dramatic Alex todorov at Princeton
has shown us that um judgments of
political candidates faces in just 1
second predict 70% of US Senate and
gubernatorial race
outcomes and even let's go digital
emoticons used well in online
negotiations can lead you to claim more
value from that negotiation if you use
them poorly bad idea right so so when we
think of nonverbals we think of how we
judge others how they judge us and what
the outcome are we tend to forget though
the other audience that's influenced by
our nonverbals and that's ourselves we
are also influenced by our nonverbals
our thoughts and our feelings and our
physiology so what nonverbals am I
talking about I'm a social psychologist
I studi Prejudice and I teach at a
competitive business school so it was
inevitable that I would become
interested in power dynamics I became
especially interested in non-verbal
expressions of power and dominance
um and what are non-verbal expressions
of power and dominance well this is what
they are so in the animal kingdom they
are about expanding so you make yourself
big you stretch out you take up space
you're basically opening up it's about
opening up and this is true across the
animal kingdom it's not just limited to
primates and humans do the same thing so
they do this both when they when they
have power sort of chronically and also
when they're feeling power ful in the
moment and this one is especially
interesting because it really shows us
how Universal and old these expressions
of Power are this expression which is
known as Pride uh Jessica Tracy has
studied she shows that people who are
born with sight and people who are
congenitally blind do this when they win
at a physical competition so when they
cross the finish line and they've won it
doesn't matter if they've never seen
anyone do it they do this so the arms up
in the v the chin is slightly lifted
what do we do when we feel powerless we
do exactly the opposite we close up we
wrap ourselves up we make ourselves
small we don't want to bump into the
person next to us so again both animals
and humans do the same thing and this is
what happens when you put together high
and low power so what we tend to do when
it comes to power is that we complement
the others nonverbals so if someone's
being really powerful with us we tend to
make ourselves smaller we don't mirror
them we do the opposite of them so
I'm watching this behavior in the
classroom and um what do I notice I
notice that uh MBA students really
exhibit the full range of power
nonverbal so you have people who are
like caricatures of Alphas like really
coming into the room they get right into
the middle of the room before class even
starts like they really want to occupy
space um when they sit down they're sort
of spread out they raise their hands
like this um you have other people who
are virtually collapsing when they come
in as soon soon as they come in you see
it you see it on their faces and their
bodies and they sit in their chair and
they make themselves tiny and they they
go like this when they raise their hand
I noticed a couple things about this one
you're not going to be surprised it
seems to be related to gender so um
women are much more likely to do this
kind of thing than men um women feel
chronically less powerful than men so
this is not surprising um but the other
thing I noticed is that it also seemed
to be related to the extent to which the
students were participating and how well
they were participating and this is
really important in the MBA classroom
because participation counts for half
the grade so Business Schools have been
struggling with this gender grade Gap
you get these equally qualified women
and men coming in and then you get these
differences in grades and it seems to be
partly attributable to participation so
I started to wonder you know okay so you
have these people coming in like this
and they're participating is it possible
that we could get people to fake it and
would it lead them to participate more
so my main collaborator Dana Carney
who's at Berkeley and I really wanted to
know can you fake it till you make it
like can you do this just for a little
while and actually experience a
behavioral outcome that makes you seem
more powerful so we know that our
nonverbals govern how other people think
and feel about us there's a lot of
evidence but our question really was do
our nonverbals govern how we think and
feel about
ourselves there's some evidence that
they do so for example um when we we
smile when we feel happy but also when
we're forced to Smile by holding a pen
in our teeth like this it makes us feel
happy so it goes both ways when it comes
to power um it also goes both ways so
when you when you uh feel powerful
you're more likely to do this but it's
also possible that um when you when you
uh pretend to be powerful you are more
likely to actually feel powerful so the
second question really was you know so
we know that our minds change our bodies
but is it also true that that our bodies
change our
minds and when I say Minds in the case
of the powerful what am I talking about
so I'm talking about thoughts and
feelings and the sort of physiological
things that make up our our thoughts and
feelings and in my case that's hormones
I look at hormones so what do the minds
of the powerful versus the powerless
look like
so powerful people tend to be not
surprisingly more assertive and more
confident uh more more optimistic they
actually feel that they're going to win
even at games of chance uh they also
tend to be able to think more abstractly
so there are a lot of differences they
take more risks there are a lot of
differences between powerful and
Powerless people physiologically there
also are differences on two key hormones
Testo testosterone which is the
dominance hormone and C cortisol which
is the stress hormone so what we find is
that um uh high power alpha males in
primate hierarchies have high
testosterone and low cortisol and
powerful and effective leaders also have
high testosterone and low cortisol so
what does that mean when you think about
power T people tended to think only
about testosterone because that was
about dominance but really power is also
about how you react to stress so do you
want the high power power leader that's
dominant high on testosterone but really
stress reactive probably not right you
want the person who's powerful and
assertive and dominant but not very
stress reactive the person who's
laid-back so we know that in uh in in
primate hierarchies if an alpha needs to
take over uh if an individual needs to
take over an alpha role sort of suddenly
within a few days that individual's
testosterone has gone up significantly
and it's c has dropped significantly so
we have this evidence both that the body
can shape the mind at least at the
facial level um and also that role
changes can shape the mind so what
happens okay you take a role change um
what happens if you do that at a really
minimal level like this tiny
manipulation this tiny intervention for
two minutes you say I want you to stand
like this and it's going to make you
feel more
powerful so this is what we did we
decided to uh bring people into the lab
and run a little experiment and these
people adopted for two minutes either
high power poses or low power poses and
I'm just going to show you five of the
poses although they took on only two so
here's
one couple more this one has been dubbed
the Wonder Woman by the
media here a couple more so you can be
standing or you can be sitting uh and
here are the low power poses so you're
folding up you're making yourself
small this one is very low power when
you're touching your neck you're really
kind of protecting yourself so this is
what happens they come in they spit into
a vial we for two minutes say you need
to do this or this they don't look at
pictures of the poses we don't want to
Prime them with a concept of power we
want them to be feeling power right so
two minutes they do this we then ask
them how powerful do you feel on a
series of items and then we give them an
opportunity to gamble and then we take
another saliva sample that's it that's
the whole experiment so this is what we
find risk tolerance which is the
gambling what we find is that when
you're when the when you're in the high
power pose condition 86% of you will
gamble when you're in the low power pose
condition only 60% and that's a pretty
whopping significant difference here's
what we find on
testosterone from their Baseline when
they come in high power people
experience about a 20%
increase and low power people experience
about a 10% decrease so again 2 minutes
and you get these changes here's what
you get on cortisol high power people
experience about a 25%
decrease and the low power people
experience about a 15% increase so two
minutes lead to these hormonal changes
that configure your brain to basically
be either assertive confident and
comfortable or really stress reactive um
and you know feeling sort of shut down
and we've all had that feeling right so
it seems that our nonverbals do govern
how we think and feel about ourselves so
it's not just others but it's also
ourselves also our bodies change our
minds but the next question of course is
can power posing for a few minutes
really change your life in meaningful
ways so this is in the lab it's this
little task you know it's just a couple
of minutes you know where can you
actually apply this which we cared about
of course and so we think it's really
what what what matters I mean where you
want to use this is evaluative
situations like social threat situations
where are you being evaluated either by
your friends like for teenagers at the
lunchroom table it could be you know for
some people it's speaking at a
Schoolboard meeting it might be giving a
pitch or giving a talk like this or um
doing a job interview we decided that
the one that most people could relate to
because most people had been through was
the job interview so um we published
these these findings and the media all
over it and they say um okay so this is
what you do when you go in for the job
interview
right you know so we were of course
horrified and it said oh my God no no no
that's not what we meant at all for a
numerous reasons no no no don't do that
again this is not about you talking to
other people it's you talking to
yourself what do you do before you go
into a job interview you do this right
you're sitting down you're looking at
your iPhone or your Android not trying
to leave anyone out um you are you know
you're looking at your notes you're
hunching up making yourself small when
really what you should doing maybe is
this like in the bathroom right do that
fine two minutes so that's what we want
to test okay so we bring people into a
lab and they do a couple they do either
high or low power poses again they go
through a very stressful job interview
it's five minutes long they are being
recorded they're being judged also and
the judges are trained to give no
non-verbal feedback so they look like
this like imagine this is the person
interviewing you so for five minutes
nothing nothing and this is worse than
being heckled people hate this it's it's
what Maran the France calls standing in
Social quicksand so this really spikes
your cortisol so this is the job
interview we put them through because we
really wanted to see what happened we
then have these coders look at these
tapes four of them they're blind to the
hypothesis they're blind to the
conditions they have no idea who's been
posing in what pose and they they they
end up looking at these sets of tapes
and they say oh we want to hire these
people all the high power posers we
don't want to hire these people we also
evaluate these people much more
positively overall but what's driving it
it's not about the content of the speech
it's about the presence that they're
bringing to the speech we also because
we rate them in all these variables
related to sort of competence like how
well structured is the speech how good
is it what are their qualifications no
effect on those things this is what's
affected these kinds of things people
are breaking their true selves basically
they're bringing themselves they bring
their ideas but as themselves with with
no you know residue over them so this is
what's driving the effect or mediate
mediating the
effect so um when I tell people about
this that our bodies change our minds
and our minds can change our behavior
and our Behavior can change our outcomes
they say to me I don't it feels fake
right so I said fake it till you make it
like I don't it's not me like I don't
want to get there and then still feel
like a fraud I don't want to feel like
an impos fer I don't want to get there
only to feel like I'm not supposed to be
here and that really resonated with me
because I want to tell you a little
story about being an impostor and
feeling like I'm not supposed to be here
when I was 19 I was in a really bad car
accident I was thrown out of a car
rolled several times I was thrown from
the car and um I woke up in a head
injury rehab Ward and I had been
withdrawn from college um and I learned
that my IQ had dropped by by two
standard deviations which was um very
traumatic I knew my IQ because I had
identified with being smart and I had
been called gifted as a child so I'm
taken out of college I keep trying to go
back they say you're not going to finish
college like just you know there there
other things for you to do but that's
not going to work out for you so I I
really struggled with this and I have to
say having your identity taken from you
your core identity and if for me it was
being smart having that taken from you
there's nothing that leaves you feeling
more powerless than that so I felt
entirely powerless I worked and worked
and worked and I got lucky and worked
and got lucky and worked eventually I
graduated from college took me four
years longer than my peers and I
convinced someone my my angel uh adviser
Susan Fisk to take me on and so I ended
up at Princeton and I was like I am not
supposed to be here I am an impostor and
the night before my first year talk and
the first year talk at Princeton is a
20-minute talk to 20 people that's it I
was so afraid of being found out the
next day that I called her and said I'm
quitting she was like you are not
quitting because I took a gamble on you
and you're staying you're going to stay
and this is what you're going to do you
going to fake it you're going to take
you're going to do every talk that you
ever get asked to do you're just going
to do it and do it and do it even if
you're terrified and just paralyzed and
having an out-of- Body Experience until
you have this moment where you say oh my
gosh I'm doing it like I have become
this I am actually doing this so that's
what I did 5 years in grad school few
years you know I'm at Northwestern I
moved to Harvard I'm at Harvard I'm not
really thinking about it anymore but for
a long time I had been thinking not
supposed to be here not supposed to be
here so at the end of my first year at
Harvard um a student who had not talked
in class the entire semester who I had
said look you got to participate or else
you're going to fail came into my office
I really didn't know her at all and she
said she came in totally defeated and
she said
I'm not supposed to be
here and that was the moment for me
because two things happened one was that
I realized oh my gosh I don't feel like
that anymore you know I don't feel that
anymore but she does and I get that
feeling and the second was she is
supposed to be here like she can fake it
she can become it so he's like yes you
are you are supposed to be here and
tomorrow you're going to fake it you're
going to make yourself powerful and you
know
you're
GNA and you're G to go you're going to
go into the classroom and you are going
to give the best comment ever you know
and she gave the best comment ever and
people turned around they were like oh
my god I didn't even notice her sitting
there you know she comes back to me
months later and I realized that she had
not just faked it till she made it she
had actually faked it till she became it
so she had changed um and so I I I I
want to say to you don't fake it till
you make it fake it till you become it
you know it's not do it enough until you
actually become it and internalize the
last thing I want to leave you with is
this tiny
tweaks can lead to big
changes so this is two minutes two
minutes two minutes two minutes before
you go into the next stressful
evaluative situation for 2 minutes try
doing this in the elevator in a bathroom
stall at your desk behind closed doors
that's what you want to do get configure
your brain to cope the best in that
situation get your testosterone up get
your cortisol down don't leave that
situation feeling like oh I didn't show
them who I am leave that situation
feeling like oh I really feel like I got
to say who I am and show who I am so I
want to ask you first you know both to
try power posing and also I want to ask
you to share this science cuz this is
simple I don't have ego involved in this
give it away like share it with people
because the people who can use it the
most are the ones with no resources and
no technology and no status and no power
give it to them because they can do it
in private they need their bodies
privacy and two minutes and it can
significantly change the outcomes of
their life thank you
[Music]